[Music]
the work of French artist odilon redon
regarded as one of the most important
and original symbolists of the late 19th
and early 20th centuries defies easy
categorization his work transcends the
boundaries of conventional artistic
movements blending elements of symbolism
surrealism and even hints of imp
impressionism through his exploration of
Dreams imagination and the subconscious
redon is most well known for his body of
monochromatic artwork that exploited the
expressive and suggested powers of the
color black known as the Noir series
although many other more colorful works
of his would be just as compelling and
unsettling it is his Sinister black
charcoal Noir drawings that seem to tap
deep into the Curiosity of many art
enthusiast when they hear the name of
odilon redon primarily for their
intimate connection to the Hidden Side
of Ron's mind that he would creatively
and willingly put on display for viewers
to
experience in this video we will delve
into that very same experience together
by taking a close look at some of
redon's Most Fascinating pieces within
his Noir series to unravel the Mysteries
that lie within many of the strange
dreams and nightmares that he would
bring to life whether depicting
Fantastical creatures haunting
Landscapes or ethereal figures many
compositions of his within this morbidly
alluring series invite us to embark on a
journey of pure introspection and
contemplation but since his talent
transcends his use of charcoal alone
particularly in his later work we also
be taking a quick look at some of his
other paintings and pastel drawings as
well as I feel there is still much that
we can explore within his more abstract
and vibrant World which he created
alongside his darker work his ability to
go beyond the confines of reality and
evoke a sense of wonder continued to
inspire generations of artists and art
fans alike including me someone who
loves to create art with charcoal and
pastel myself who regards him as a very
big influence as well as some viewers on
this channel who I noticed suggested
that I cover this artist someday and I
guess now is that time please be sure to
subscribe and hit the notification Bell
for more videos from me on the weird and
wonderful side of the art world and of
course welcome to another video my
friends join me as we embark on a
journey into the mystical Realms of
redon's imagination where the boundaries
between the conscious and the
subconscious blur and the mysteries of
existence
unfold
[Music]
odilon redon born bertran Jean redon on
April 20th 1840 in Bordeaux France was
raised in a cultured bouro family the
wealth of his family ripened from rather
unfortunate Roots however as his father
made his fortune through the slave
trades in Louisiana during the 1830s
redon initially pursued a career in
architecture studying briefly under Jean
Leon Bona in Paris however his true
passion lay in the realm of art showing
fine promise at drawing at a young age
and he soon abandoned architecture to
dedicate himself fully to creating art
redon's early Artistic Endeavors were
influenced by The Works of romantic and
symbolist movements as well as by his
encounters with the literary and
philosophical occurrence of his time he
experimented with various media
including charcoal lithography and
etching developing a distinctive style
characterized by a delicate balance
between light and Shadow and an emphasis
on imaginative subject matter in the
1870s after returning from his service
in the Franco Prussian War until its end
in 1871 redon work meticulously in
refining his style he eventually began
to gain recognition for his series of
charcoal drawings known as the noirs
which depicted Fantastical and often
macb imagery inspired by his dreams and
inner Visions by the 1880s these Works
attracted the attention of influential
writers and artists including jolis car
huisman who championed Ron's unique
artistic Vision including his drawings
and his cult novel titled Aro or against
nature in
English throughout his career redon
continued to evolve as an artist
experimenting with color and form in his
later pastol and oil pieces his imagery
ranged from Haunting Landscapes and
mysterious figures to Vivid depictions
of flowers and other natural elements
all imbued with a sense of Otherworldly
Beauty and mystery by the beginning of a
1900s after seemingly abandoning his
dark and Moody charcoal drawings Al
together for more abstract paintings
redon's artistic achievements were
recognized with numerous exhibitions and
accolades including the Legion of Honor
in 1903 and the salon D dor in
1904 despite his growing reputation
redon remained a private and
introspective individual preferring to
let his art speak for itself rather than
seeking fame or
notoriety and it was around this time
that another curious development in his
style began to emerge which was his Keen
interest in Hinduism and Buddhism as
well as their cultures which
increasingly showed in his work most
notably his piece titled the Buddha
completed in 1905 which features what
appears to be the Japanese
interpretation of the Buddha of infinite
light and life named amitaba the central
Buddha of devotion within the pure land
sect of Buddhism that flourished
throughout Northeast Asia
as the new century continued odilon
passed away on July 6th
1916 leaving behind a legacy that
continues to inspire and Intrigue
artists and art enthusiasts around the
world his exploration of inner depths of
a human psyche and his ability to evoke
a sense of wonder and mystery through
his art ensure that his work remains as
relevant and captivating today as it was
during his
lifetime
[Music]
first I'd like us to take a look at one
of his earlier pieces within his Noir
collection titled Guardian Spirit of the
waters completed in
1878 this charcoal composition seems to
grab the viewers attention immediately
with what could only be described as a
large head of in the sky above a calm
ocean with equally large yet
expressively gentle eyes gazing
downwards towards a sailboat with
surrounding goals flitting about and
skimming the
waves the sea stretches far out to a
featureless horizon presenting us with
an immediate sense of
vastness if you look closer you can just
about make out a delicate looking Halo
that surrounds the head as well as what
appears to be a wing on the far left
given this strange head a character of
being Angelic or like a Divine being
whilst also maintaining a degree of
ominous domination over the environment
below according to One Source I came
across when the artist's father Bernard
redon was a young man he traveled from
France to Louisiana in order to try and
recoup the family's lost wealth that he
had accumulated in the slave train
while there he met and married redon's
mother odil on their later return to
France odil was pregnant with odilo who
was subsequently born in
Bordeaux the artist often regretted that
he was not born at Sea an environment
that odilon himself described as quote a
place without a country on an
abyss with this in mind perhaps this
work could be seen as representing a
kind of alternative birth for Lon
perhaps the large head in the sky is
actually a self-portrait of his destined
or even desired emergence into the world
as he always envisioned it's of course
hard to say for sure but the strange
imagery nevertheless beautifully
foreshadows a surrealist style that
would become increasingly popular
throughout the 20th century in which
such imagery invites the viewer to ask
many questions like
this as for the technical aspects of
this piece the drawing is very typical
of redon's noirs in which he manipulated
the charcoal Medium as well as merely
applying it to paper in order to achieve
the array of tones and textures that we
can see such techniques that he would
Master included wiping stumping smudging
and even adding touches of chalk to
enhance
highlights most notably around the eye
of a head facing a viewer which seems to
have a distin inve glowing ring around
it as if caught in the light beam of the
sun which again emphasizes the Heavenly
and benevolent aura that seems to
emanate from this being watching quietly
from
[Music]
above this next piece which I consider
to be one of his most gripping when I
first saw it is simply titled Apparition
with a slightly uncertain completion
date between 1880 and
1890 this would in fact be one of other
artworks that shared this title which
included his later piece under the same
name completed in 1910 featuring an
abstract floral display and two ghostly
white figures walking down a hazy
staircase on the right presenting both a
mysterious atmosphere accompanied by a
disorientating Cascade of color in this
earlier work though the atmosphere is
nothing short of sheer threat and Dread
there are heavy deposits of charcoal
spread across the paper like Black Rain
with the mysterious face of a bearded
man peering through on the right with
dark sunken eyes the ambiguity of a
figure's identity and significance is
one of the most striking aspects of its
work is it a ghost a spirit or simply a
figment of the artist's
imagination redon deliberately leaves
this open to interpretation inviting
viewers to emoke moods and emotions
rather than trying to depict a concrete
subject there is again though a slight
strange element of divine energy that
seems to emanate from this figure at
least for me perhaps it's just the beard
and the noticeably compassionate
expression on his face in spite of of a
dark chaos around him but he almost
appears to look like Jesus Christ which
when looking at other examples of
rayon's work even within other Noir
drawings depictions of Christ would not
be a stranger to his
collection regardless of the exact
identity the figure's ghostly appearance
suggests a presence from Beyond the
realm of living hinting at themes of
mortality spirituality and the unknown
Ron was deeply influenced by the
writings and imagery used within the
short stories of Edgar alen Poe and
other Gothic writers whose themes would
often leak into the work of
radons furthermore the composition of
apparition adds to its enigmatic
atmosphere the figure is positioned
slightly off center creating a sense of
imbalance and tension the use of
negative space and Shadow further
emphasizes the Eerie mood drawing the
viewer's Gaze towards a mysterious
figure at the edge of a work with the
darkness and Shadow also being a key
character in itself alongside the
figure through its dreamlike imagery
ambiguous subject matter and
Supernatural atmosphere the drawing is a
prime example of redon's invitation to
viewers to explore the depths of their
own imagination and subconscious making
it both a haunting display but a
fascinatingly interactive one
[Music]
the next charcoal drawing is titled
cactus man completed between 1881 and
1882 the drawing to picks a man's head
emerging from a decorative Square flower
pot the head itself is also covered in
menacing looking spikes resembling that
of a
cactus his expression seems to be one of
observation with large somewhat dull
eyes and full lips the flower pot
although quite tricky to make out is
decorated with an image of an Amazon
slaying a man referencing the Greek myth
of his female warriors whose conflation
of feminine and masculine traits
poetically Echoes Circ conflation of
human and plant forms presented to us in
the
drawing although again it is open to
personal perspective I can't help but
get the impression that this drawing
presenting the merge of human and plant
features interestingly challenges our
perception of boundaries between the
human world and the natural world this
blurring could represent a connection to
Nature a vulnerability to its harshness
or perhaps a potential for growth and
resilience the cactus spikes emerging
from the man's head evoke for suffering
of Christ's Crown of Thorns suggesting
themes of sacrifice endurance and the
potential for beauty to emerge from Pain
the image of the Amazon on the flower
pot known for their strength and
Defiance of traditional gender roles jux
opposes for seemingly passive portrayal
of a man this could be interpreted as a
commentary on the societal expectations
of masculinity or a broader exploration
of gender fluidity in addition perhaps
the figure solitary confinement in the
partt and his large observant eyes
suggest themes of isolation
introspection and a silent awareness of
a world around him one other
interpretation I came across which I
found quite surprising explores the
potential influence of redon's exposure
to an exhibition showcasing the
indigenous people of Tiara def go an
archipelago at the southernmost tip of
South America who had a profound if not
complicated impact on the artist and
whom he described as being quote hay
cruel and
grotesque on the one hand he also
reportedly admired the Purity and
simplicity of a so-called primitive
people while on the other hand he
recognized them as the Fearsome
barbarity of man's
Origins with with a decorative flower
pot a symbol of Western culture and
containment Ron's hybrid cactus man can
thus be understood as an attempt to
reconcile the two poles of human
existence nature and culture wild and
civilized but of course and I can't
stress this enough the complexities of
such an interpretation require careful
consideration and
sensitivity it's important to remember
that this was an artist
whose father was a slave trader during a
very different time in history to today
where many Europeans had a rather shall
we say warped view of native people so
if we're going to take an interpretation
like this into account it's vital to
understand the circumstances and nature
of Ron's generation and upbringing in
any case by examining the various
symbols and their potential meanings
cactus man allows us to delve into the
themes of human connection to Nature the
complexities of human experience and the
power of art to evoke emotions and
Inspire
[Music]
contemplation next we have the charcoal
lithograph graph created in
1882 titled the eye like a strange
balloon moves towards
Infinity it is the first plate from a
10-part series titled aned Capo once
again inspired by The Works of the
American writer Edgar alen
po the artwork features a single
disembodied eye morphed into a strange
shape of a hot air balloon it's upward
gazing Iris and pupil resembling a dark
dark pulsating void the eye is depicted
as detached from its owner floating
freely against a hazy background of
thick
clouds instead of a basket containing
passengers the balloon carries what
looks like a severed head on a platter
much like that of St John the Baptist in
the biblical story of Salon in the lower
left the FRS of a lonely palm-like plant
are appearing Out of the Shadows
the central eye is often interpreted as
a symbol of a human mind specifically
the conscious and unconscious
aspects from my personal point of view
this disembodied nature might suggest a
separation from the physical world
delving into the Realms of Dreams
imagination and
introspection the many faint ropes
attaching to the eye can be seen as
representing the tenuous connection
between the conscious and an unconscious
mind or the fragile nature of human
thought and
perception the balloon-like quality of
the eye might further suggest a sense of
Ascension or the desire of journeying
towards the unknown potentially
referencing the vastness of the human
psyche or the mysteries of the universe
the Cloudy backgrounds adds to the
dreamlike and ethereal quality of the
artwork the eyeball disassociated from
the physical body could be seen as a
symbol for freedom from the constraints
of everyday life and the attainment of a
higher plane of
Consciousness according to scholar and
Creator jod hunman quote floating up
towards Infinity let loose from the
limitations of body and mind Ron's eyes
are free to really see beyond reality
Beyond nature beyond the visible end
quote
the connection to edar Alan Poe is also
significant Po's work often explored
themes of Darkness the Supernatural and
the exploration of a human psyche these
themes resonate with the symbolist
elements presented in radon's artwork
the eyes unsettling gaze and its Journey
towards Infinity evoke a sense of
mystery introspection and the potential
for encountering the unknown that
mirrors the introspective and often
unsettling nature of pose
writing overall this artwork truly is
thought-provoking encouraging much
contemplation through it symbolist
imagery it delves into the complexities
of a human mind and invites viewers to
consider the vastness of the Unseen and
the journey of
[Music]
self-discovery
next we have redon's infinite search
from Knight created in
1886 a lithograph that captures yet more
haunting and enigmatic
elements in this work the dominating
image is that of a figure with strands
of straw-like hair and exaggerated
facial features overlooking what looks
like some kind of chalice emitting Vapor
or smoke that climbs to the ceiling of
an ancient looking room almost
reminiscent of a medieval castle or a
church this figure to me almost
resembles a witch experimenting with
Alchemy in the dead of night she appears
to be in a state of contemplation
focusing on the Chalice or perhaps
searching for something intangible as
suggested by the title The Infinite
search the figure's elongated form
warped facial features and sinuous
Contours evoke a sense of movement and
transformation suggesting a state of
flux or
metamorphosis as is typical of Ron's
work that we've already seen symbolism
plays a significant role in the infinite
search the nocturnal setting and the
figure solitary Journey evoke a sense of
existential angst and the Quest for
meaning in the face of mystery the
lithograph itself is extremely
mysterious leaving more questions and
answers and a complex Melting Pot of
moods it wouldn't surprise me though if
this was exactly what redon
[Music]
intended let's now take a look at one of
Ron's most recognizable charcoal
drawings the 1887 piece simply tied
for smiling
spider the drawing features a rather
large spider with a fuzzy looking body
and 10 legs instead of the usual eight
it most striking feature is its very
humanlike facial features consisting of
a snub nose and a wide smiling mouth
that reveals a row of tiny white teeth
creating a strange and paradoxical image
from the way the spider is tilted it
gives off the impression that the spider
is descending from a thread of its web
from the ceiling down to what looks like
a kitchen
floor much like the images of Christ
spiders have appeared before in his work
with equally bizarre blends of arachnet
and human features Ron based this
particular print upon an earlier
charcoal drawing but the lithographic
medium which uses greasy ink or crayon
applied directly to a smooth Stone was
equally well suited to the artist
exploration of the color black for me I
immediately get the sense that the
spider with its additional legs and
human smile suggests a creature from the
realm of Dreams nightmares or the
subconscious the smile a symbol of joy
and friendliness just opposed with the
spider a creature often associated with
fear and danger creates an interesting
sense of
Duality this reflects the complexities
of human nature and the potential for
both good and evil within
us the spider might represent hidden
fears or anxieties that lurk beneath the
surface of our Consciousness or perhaps
within the artist
himself the act of drawing it out and
giving it form even a seemingly playful
one could be a way for ridon to confront
these fears much like the cactus man
this work blurs the lines between the
natural world that being The Spider and
the human world with its humanlike smile
this reflects a common theme in
symbolism where artists explored the
imaginative and subjective experience of
reality to create an image that is
totally Fantastical it comes to little
surprise that raidon was reportedly
fascinated with the Natural Sciences and
with the encouragement of his friend the
botanist arong clev he studied Anatomy
oology and microscopic life he also
frequently visited paris's Museum of
Natural History which included exhibits
of biological abnormalities and he even
attended scientific
lectures it seems that many of these
beasts and monsters that appear in his
work could well have been based on
observation but were mutated by his
imagination The Smiling spider serves as
a wonderful recognition of our Humanity
in these strange hybrid creatures the
almost inherent human fear of spiders
mixed with the playful grin of a fuzzy
spider makes images like this both
appealing and unsettling at the same
[Music]
time another unnerving example of r On's
Noir is titled before I saw the vaporous
Contours of a human form another
lithograph completed in
1896 like an image straight out of a
ghost story this piece is incredibly
chilling interestingly enough this image
was in fact used as part of a series
inspired by a ghost story The Haunted
and the haunters by Edward bullwood
Litton leaving us with some confidence
that this liography
of the
supernatural the title itself Sparks
curiosity it hints at a mysterious
Vision a revelation where a human form
emerges from something undefined it may
even be a direct quote and experience of
redon
himself the central image is a white
hazy and wispy form that suggests a
human figure is not a clear
representation but rather an
impressionistic blur the figure sits in
a dark room where we can see in the
background two staring eyes gazing
towards us and the figure from the
darkness which leaves us with a puzzling
and uncomfortable question is the ghost
the seated hazy figure in front or is it
the eyes that we can see in the
shadows without a doubt many of rayon's
Noir drawings capture the most Intrigue
within the vast collection of his
artwork but there are still some
wonderful examples of his more colorful
work that capture the same level of
Fascination so for the rest of this
video I'd like us to take a look at some
of rayon's pastel and oil paintings to
not only observe his versatility as an
artist but also explore the same degree
of mystery that he accomplishes Within
These works
for example his piece titled figure
created in
1876 interestingly seems to almost
capture the same themes and moods as
this first piece we looked at Guardian
Spirit of the
waters we're once again presented with a
large head suspended in the air with the
aid of angel-like wings against a
beautiful setting all Rising Sun behind
it is an elegant woman who seems to be
holding the disembodied head with the
ease of drying and washing the orange
glowing sun behind feels similarly
omnipotent the way it seems to fill the
entire background puts an end to any
sense of the outward exterior
perspective unlike guardian of a spirit
Waters the expression of a head in this
work looks off with an expression of
irony as explains in a very poetic
article on this work written by Tom Quay
which I thought would be worth sharing
quote its Stern jaw detailed with an
Earthly Simplicity Contours Stern and
strong as the holder's own face is
scrolled with an alarming shity the head
gazes off beyond the image to elsewhere
she is not concerned with the situation
and suggests that neither should you be
rather the real Marvel here is the palet
of figure it's drying radiating heat
that folds over the image with a wicked
Hue below the duo a crispy Bracken Falls
seemingly glowing from within with an
orate
display end
[Music]
quote oron red on stag from 1900 is a
captivating exploration of the inner
World while the pastel drawing defies
literal interpretation various elements
contribute to its dreamlike atmosphere
and symbolic meaning the central figure
is a woman with flowing dark hair her
eyes in a state of serene
contemplation her ghostly form suggests
an ethereal presence existing beyond the
confines of a physical world she appears
to reside within a boundless cloudy
space rendered in a soft pallet of Blues
Reds and yellows further emphasizing the
everchanging and unsolid quality of
daydreaming her relaxed and almost
meditative expression signifies once
again a state of introspection where the
boundaries between reality and
Imagination
blur the absence of a defined background
allows a viewer to project their own
interpretations and emotions onto the
scene Ron was also deeply influenced by
music believing it held the key to
unlocking the depths of a human psyche
he saw rat as a visual manifestation of
the emotions and experiences evoked by
music while Daydream doesn't depict any
literal musical elements the swirling
forms and soft colors evoke a sense of
Harmony and flow reminiscing of a
musical
soundscape this connection is further
strengthened by Ron's own writings where
he expressed the limitations of color in
capturing the essence of Music which he
considered a purely internal
[Music]
experience as we'll see in the next
piece titled parul completed in 1912
even within redon's work that included
color dark and morbid themes would still
occasionally creep up to the
surface with a similar yet Bleaker style
to that of Daydream this gripping image
of a solitary figure up against a lonely
mountainous landscape is believed to be
inspired by Vagner 3 Act 1882 Opera
under the same name inspired by The
Legend of a Holy Grail where on revisits
the theme of his early ol lithograph
made between 1891 and
1892 in this version though redon's
paral deviates significantly from the
typical portrayals here the warrior has
been stripped of his armor his helmet
and Lance transformed into a more
introspective figure perhaps Aus a wise
man or Seer this is evident in his
solitary pose and the contemplative
expression that's absent from
traditional
depictions parall dominates the
foreground emphasizing his monumentality
and
isolation the background is Stark
featuring bare mountains rendered in
somber tones of violet and black this
Barren landscape reflects parul's
internal State one devoid of comfort or
clear
Direction the dominance of the two
colors of violet and black con
contributes to the melancholic and
introspective mood Violet is often
associated with spirituality and wisdom
and might hint at par for is in a dream
that seems to be haunting him but the
art also carries connotations of
mourning loss and death which is most
suited to the color
black as we already know raidon was
heavily inspired by music and Ron's
fascination with Varner's Opera is
evident here however he departs from a
literal representation focusing instead
on the character's internal struggles
rather than his external actions
presenting the characteristics of inner
exploration is truly where odilon redon
shine brightest in his
creativity in many ways and if we've
learned anything from other works of Ron
that we've seen already I feel that past
for can be seen as another beautiful and
disquieting portrayal of a character on
a deep introspective Journey inviting us
to perhaps do the same he may be
grappling with past experiences seeking
answers or confronting internal
[Music]
demons for our final exploration of
Leon's work I'd like us to take a look
at the painting called cyclops completed
in
1914 this masterpiece of symbolism draws
inspiration from a Greek myth of polyus
a oneeyed giant in love with the SE
nymph
galatia however Ron's interpretation
transcends the literal narrative
offering a deeper exploration of Desire
loneliness and the complexities of the
inner World Not only would an appearance
of the Cyclops be a returning theme in
his art but if you explore other
examples of his work you will encounter
many other creatures of myth Legend and
folklore ranging from other Beast of
Greek mythology to strange characters of
Shakespeare's
writings the most striking element is
The Uncanny appearance of a cyclops with
its massive eye peering intently from
behind a mountainous Ridge with his head
cocked to one side like a curious animal
as we know redon was known for his use
of eyes as potent symbols and he imbus
this one with an unsettling
intensity it represents not just
observation but a powerful and perhaps
obsessive desire fixed on the sleeping
galatia
below the scene is bathed in an
unnatural dreamlike light the vibrant
colors of a landscape Blues greens and
yellows contrast with the monstrous form
of the Cyclops creating a degree of
unease the painting is divided between
the dark mountainous realm of a cyclops
and the brightly colored flower filled
world where galatia
rests this split could maybe represent
the conscious and subconscious minds or
a struggle between Primal desires and
Beauty the painting evokes a sense of
longing and loneliness for Cyclops
hidden position suggest shyness or shame
unable to directly confront the object
of his affection galatia oblivious in
her Slumber underscores the
one-sidedness of his desire Ron's
dreamlike imagery Taps into the roar
emotions and Primal urges that reside
beneath the surface of our minds the
Cyclops with his abnormal appearance
could easily embody these Untamed
desires it's also worth taking into
account that this was painted around the
outbreak of World War I thus the work
might hold a hidden commentary on the
destructive nature of unchecked passions
and the blindness that can lead to
violence whatever the case Cyclops seems
to beautifully transcend its
mythological Source offering a Timeless
exploration of a human psyche through
its dream filled imagery and captivating
symbolism Ron gives us a chance here to
confront our own inner monsters and
grapple with the complicated aspects of
desire and
longing
earlier I mentioned that odilon ridon is
a very big artistic influence of mine
and I feel I really need to emphasize
that my chosen go-to medium is pastel
because I love how you can manipulate it
so freely I often like to smudge the
colors together with my fingers and
create hazy textures and so on and
although it can obviously get quite
messy I find that is very much part of
the appealing challenge for me
to grab hold of something that can often
be very unwieldy and tame it into
something beautiful crisp and neat is
such a rewarding feeling and coming to
learn more about redon and how he used
very similar techniques in his pastel
and charcoal drawings I find that very
inspiring but one thing I can't help but
feel slightly envious about is seeing
what he has which I feel I often lack
sometimes when it comes to my art which
is his seemingly endless imagination
sure he was more forly trained in art
than me but I feel his level of
Fantastical and surreal imagination is
something that no level of training
could inherently create it is something
that he was truly gifted with and
something that came so naturally to him
the fact is there are so many other
examples that I could have shown and
discussed in this video but I'm almost
tempted to make another video on his
work sometime in the future if time
allows it was very hard to pick between
his Works considering what can be
learned and explored within his vast
collection but this is just the impact
he's personally left on me the reality
is his legacy has tapped into the hearts
of so many other creatives and lovers of
creativity over many generations which
is down to redon's ability to depict
what goes on inside our minds and the
world of Dreams throughout his art his
work invites viewers to delve into the
mysteries of a mind and explore the
depths of human
experience and this impact extends far
beyond symbolism his use of color and
exploration of abstraction in his later
works foreshadowed movements like
surrealism artists like matis Andre
Breton and the Nabi group acknowledged
his influence on their own Artistic
Styles he also bridged a very
significant Gap within the timeline of
art history specifically between the
19th and 20th centuries while firmly
rooted in symbolism his Innovative use
of form and color paved the way for
artistic movements that would follow
especially like surrealism like I
already mentioned and abstract art what
more can he say Ron was nothing less
than a master of symbolic language and
his resonance within a trajectory of
Modern Arts can be heard all around us
from the halls of museums and galleries
to right here where we are now on
YouTube and many other online
communities that adore
him thank you for watching this video I
hope you found it intriguing and gave
you an itch to explore more of rayon's
work and please let me know in the
comments if you have your own
interpretation about any of the art that
we looked at there's always a chance I
may have overlooked a few things and
it's always important to share different
perspectives with each other to give us
a broader picture I'd love to hear your
thoughts I'd like to take a moment just
before I head off to share some more art
with my end of video feature artist
corner here I get to share some artwork
sent to me by one of my viewers and
today's featured artist is Hope Bartley
a dynamic mixed meteor artist hailing
from a captivating island of Jamaica who
draws inspiration from his Kingston
roots from the young age artist been
Hope's preferred language of
self-expression his journey led him to
Germany where he pursued a masters in
architecture at the pr ious bow house
Institute in desel infusing his artistic
creations with distinctive architectural
influence Hope's work engages in
compelling discussions surrounding race
and masculinity providing a
thought-provoking exploration of these
intricate themes through the medium of
mixed media his pieces reflect a
harmonious blend of cultural influences
embodying the rich tapestry of his
Jamaican upbringing and Global education
hope Bartley's Arts stands as a
testament to the potency of
self-expression and the convergence of
diverse experiences in crafting a
distinctive artistic narrative quote in
my artistic Pursuits I take a profound
exploration and critique of intricate
subjects such as masculinity race and
postcolonialism through my Approach of
mixed media painting I seek to engage
the viewer's diverse sensory experiences
encouraging contemplation of new
Dimensions inherent in these topics
within the realm of
postcolonialism my work serves as a
visual dialogue that challenges
historical narratives prompting
Reflections on enduring impacts of
colonial legacies particularly in
shaping perceptions of gender and race
hope continues by saying societal
critiques are seamlessly woven into the
fabric of my art urging viewers to
confront uncomfortable truths and
partake in conversation ations that
transcend the confines of the canvas the
deliberate Venture into new materials
reflects my commitment to pushing the
boundaries of artistic expression this
exploration into Uncharted territories
enables me to construct narratives that
are both visually captivating and
conceptually profound as I navigate
these intersections of diverse
perspectives my art evolves into a
dynamic platform for Meaningful
discourse end
quote when I first saw Hope's art after
he contacted me on Instagram I was
instantly struck by his Works elegant
flavor and how incredibly skillful his
attention to detail is the way he Blends
his paintings executed in a classical
Style with the rough and crude
application of white wall compounds
makes his art really unique and
eye-catching with an inspiring and
important message that resonates from
them I couldn't recommend him enough to
everyone watching please be sure to show
him some support and keep up to date
with his new projects give him a follow
on Instagram and check out his website
by following the links on screen or
click the links Below in the description
if you too are an artist and want to be
featured on my Channel please send me a
paragraph about yourself as well as
examples of your work to my email blind
dweller gmail.com or in an Instagram
message a big thank you to Andrew yman
for providing the music for this video
and finally as always a big thank you to
all of my close friends and supporters
on patreon and YouTube's Channel
membership here's a shout out to all of
my top paying
donators Gerson crimer P Pera mil Z Vlad
SI Tyler Butler Harley Raven Eric Lam
marker Dave MC molale eat Mo Lea flowers
Calvin Kai the new Ono 24 a Kaiser
Charlie
sanesi Ken B and Carol
H that's all for me until next time see
you in another video soon keeping
creative and bye for
now